# Atomic Nature of Matter

Princeton University
Re-affirm the atomic nature of matter by tracking the motion of particles undergoing Brownian motion, fitting this data to Einstein's model, and estimating Avogadro's number.

Historical perspective. The atom played a central role in 20th century physics and chemistry, but prior to 1908 the reality of atoms and molecules was not universally accepted. In 1827, the botanist Robert Brown observed the random erratic motion of particles found in wildflower pollen grains immersed in water using a microscope. This motion would later become known as Brownian motion. Einstein hypothesized that this Brownian motion was the result of millions of tiny water molecules colliding with the larger pollen grain particles.

In one of his "miraculous year" (1905) papers, Einstein formulated a quantitative theory of Brownian motion in an attempt to justify the "existence of atoms of definite finite size." His theory provided experimentalists with a method to count molecules with an ordinary microscope by observing their collective effect on a larger immersed particle. In 1908 Jean Baptiste Perrin used the recently invented ultramicroscope to experimentally validate Einstein's kinetic theory of Brownian motion, thereby providing the first direct evidence supporting the atomic nature of matter. His experiment also provided one of the earliest estimates of Avogadro's number. For this work, Perrin won the 1926 Nobel Prize in physics.

The problem. In this assignment, you will redo a version of Perrin's experiment. Your job is greatly simplified because with modern video and computer technology (in conjunction with your programming skills), it is possible to accurately measure and track the motion of an immersed particle undergoing Brownian motion. We supply video microscopy data of polystyrene spheres ("beads") suspended in water, undergoing Brownian motion. Your task is to write a program to analyze this data, determine how much each bead moves between observations, fit this data to Einstein's model, and estimate Avogadro's number.
